.TH "GEANY" "1" 
.SH "NAME" 
geany \(em a small and lightweight IDE 
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.PP 
\fBgeany\fR [\fBoption\fP]  [\fBfiles ...\fP]  
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
geany is a mini C editor using GTK2 with many features of an integrated development environment. Some of its 
features are: syntax highlighting, code completion, many filetypes, symbol lists and many more 
 
.SH "OPTIONS" 
.IP "\fB-n\fP           \fB\-\-no-ctags\fP         " 10 
Don't load auto completion and call tip data. Use this option, if you don't want to use them. 
For more information see documentation. 
.IP "\fB-m\fP           \fB\-\-no-msgwin\fP         " 10 
Do not show the message window. Use this option if you do not need compiler messages 
or VTE support. 
.IP "\fB-t\fP           \fB\-\-no-terminal\fP         " 10 
Don't load terminal support. Use this option, if you don't want to load the virtual terminal 
emulator widget at startup. If you don't have libvte.so.4 installed, then terminal-support is 
automatically disabled. 
.IP "\fB-l\fP           \fB\-\-vte-lib\fP         " 10 
Specify explicitly the path including filename or only the filename to the VTE library, e.g. 
/usr/lib/libvte.so or libvte.so. This option is only needed, when the autodetection does not 
work. 
.IP "\fB-c\fP           \fB\-\-config\fP         " 10 
Use an alternate configuration directory. Default configuration directory is 
~/.geany/ and there resides geany.conf and some template files. 
.IP "\fB-d\fP           \fB\-\-debug\fP         " 10 
Runs geany in debug mode, which means being verbose and printing lots of information. 
.IP "\fB-?\fP           \fB\-\-help\fP         " 10 
Show help information and exit. 
.IP "\fB-v\fP           \fB\-\-version\fP         " 10 
Show version information and exit. 
.PP 
geany supports all generic GTK options, a list is available on the help screen. 
 
.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
This manual page was written by Enrico Troeger enrico.troeger@uvena.de. Permission is 
granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under 
the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 any 
later version published by the Free Software Foundation. 
 
.PP 
On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public 
License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL. 
 
.\" created by instant / docbook-to-man, Sun 04 Jun 2006, 14:58 
